Answer me.
All right.
So I just like you got very
caught up in my conversations.
It's not a bad thing to get caught up
in conversations cuz it's obviously
we, we talk a lot about right.
Everything we were just doing is one of my
favorite parts of our church connecting.
Right.
Um, so I hate pulling you
from those conversations each.
But I know, uh, really, if, if there's
anything, I'm probably, um, for the
sake of our children's workers gonna
get to the message so that, that
you guys can get your kids back.
For your sake, you're like, Please, just
let us hang out here a little longer.
It's okay.
Take as long as you need.
So there's a balance in that, right?
Um, so super pumped to be back
here again with you this week.
Um, We are starting what I would call
for the next couple months until,
uh, Christmas time, a new series,
um, in the book of second Timothy.
And if you guys will remember, it's
been a while back at the beginning
of the year, I said, Hey, this year
we're gonna walk through the book
of first Timothy and second Timothy.
And, uh, took a little bit longer for us
to get to second Timothy, uh, to do this.
So we're gonna start, obviously, we will
not finish in 2022, second Timothy, but
we'll finish at some point next year.
Um, but I'm excited.
I, so you guys know second Timothy.
What we're getting ready to talk about
today is a message that I've, I say a
message, it's the text cuz I've changed
the message a couple different times.
It's a text I've preached probably
three or four times, different places.
Um, and I think I may have
even preached it here.
I couldn't find it in my notes,
so maybe I did, maybe I didn't.
But it's one of my favorite texts.
Um, and, and there's just so much
in, in second Timothy that I really.
Believe that will be
beneficial for each one of us.
And I think, you know, um, it's
kind of funny to say that cuz
isn't anything in the word of God
probably beneficial for us, but I
just think this is gonna be good.
Um, and so if you wanna go ahead
and turn there, we're gonna be
in second Timothy chapter one.
Um, we're gonna be covering
verses one through 12.
And, um, as we walk through this book,
I want to kind of give you guys a little
bit of a background with this, right?
So the first book of Timothy
Paul is writing to Timothy.
So Paul, the Apostle Paul, the one who,
um, was saved on the road to Damascus.
God met him, right?
He was the last apostle.
Um, and he lived his life as a
missionary, did some amazing things,
planted a ton of churches, went
on a lot of missionary journeys.
Well, the cool part was Timothy.
With him on a lot of
these missionary journeys.
Um, and as we'll even learn hearing a
little bit, is that Timothy's grandmother
and mother led him to faith in Christ.
And when Paul came to their area where
they were, he met Timothy heard about
Timothy, and he invited Timothy to
come alongside him in his journeys.
And so think of Paul was a
little bit of an older man,
and Timothy is a younger man.
I'd like to say I was the younger man
these days, but I'm probably now more
of the older man I feel like now, um,
when I think of this, this relationship.
Um, but, but Timothy in this last
book of second Timothy here is the
last book that most would believe
that Paul wrote before his death.
So he was imprisoned in Rome, um,
and was heading towards certain
death, basically being persecuted
for his faith and falsely accused.
And with that understanding, Paul
is pinning this letter, and we're
gonna see this at this point, at
some point in this letter where he
tells Timothy, Hey, come and see me.
Right?
I'm sending somebody to you to kind
of take over the church that you're
doing, Come and see me, bring a
couple things with you to come see me.
But this letter would
be an important letter.
And I think of this, um, you, you guys
know this, when somebody passes away,
typically if they've done their due
diligence, they've created a, a, a last,
you know, will and last testament, right?
Something where they're gonna.
Depart all of their, their
belongings to people.
Maybe a last word of statement.
Um, and, and usually if somebody
knows they're heading towards
their, their death, their, their,
their words tend to be more direct
and more pointed and important.
And so when we walk through this
book, I really wanna challenge you
to sit at the bedside of Paul who
is about to die and think, man,
these words that he is sharing.
Are important words that that meant so
much to him that he wanted to give the
last part of, of, of this wisdom to
Timothy and to us before he passed away.
And I wanna ask this question.
What's the difference
between knowledge and wisdom?
Okay, that's good.
What else?
Keep go, Keep going.
Correct.
So that would probably be even more of
the connection that we're looking at here.
So every day, every one of
us is gaining knowledge.
Right.
So no matter what you're doing, you're
learning something new, you're, you're,
you're, you're gaining knowledge.
At some point, you take that knowledge
and you now apply it correctly, right?
Wisdom is the right
application of knowledge.
And so think of Timothy spending
a ton of time with Paul.
Lot of information.
I think of this like at college you
get a ton of information and most of
us get out into the career and we go.
What portion of that am I gonna
actually use and turn into wisdom?
Cuz the majority of it we
feel like is worthless.
Sorry.
That's the truth with I
feel my college education.
Right.
But this is what Timothy is
going to learn is wisdom.
The right application of what Paul
has taught him all these years.
And so these words that Paul's
gonna remind Timothy have are
critical words for him and for us.
And so if we think about Timothy,
remember Timothy was a pastor.
He was leading a church,
he was facing persecution.
Timothy was known to be timid, right?
And that's, we, we kinda
learned about this.
And I kind of relate with Timothy
because at times I just wanna stand back.
I don't wanna be, um,
basically bold at times.
And, uh, so because of that, Paul
wanted to challenge Timothy and his
faith and remind him of a few things.
And so let's lean in today and, and, and
really hear from Paul as he's writing this
text and starting off this letter, and
hopefully each one of us will walk outta
here changed and learn something new.
So let's jump into the text again.
Second Timothy chapter one.
Verse one says this, Paul, an apostle
of Christ Jesus by God's will, for the
sake of the promise of life in Christ
Jesus to Timothy, my dearly loved son.
Grace, mercy, and peace from God the
Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God whom I serve with the clear
conscience as my ancestors did when I
constantly remember you in my prayers
night and day, remembering your tears.
I long to see you so that
I may be filled with joy.
I recall the sincere faith that
first lived in your grandmother
Lois, and in your mother Eunice,
and now I'm convinced isn't you.
Therefore I re I remind you to
rekindle the gift of God that is in
you through the lane on in my hands.
For God has not given us a
spirit of fear, but one of power
and love and sound judgment.
So do not be ashamed of the testimony
about our Lord or of me, his prisoner.
Instead, sharing the sufferings for the
gospel, relying on the power of God.
He has saved us and called
us with his holy calling.
Not according to our works, but
according to his own purpose and
grace, which was given to us in
Christ Jesus before time began.
This has now been.
Evident through the appearing of
our savior, Christ Jesus, who has
abolished death and has brought
life, and Im mortality to light
through the gospel for this gospel.
I was appointed to Harold and Apostle
and a teacher, and this is why I suffer
these things, but I am not ashamed
because I know whom I have believed and
persuaded that he is able to guard what
has been entrusted to me until that.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray Lord,
that our hearts are open.
Our minds are open, Lord, to your word.
May it change our lives, Lord,
today and for every day after.
And we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So the first and most powerful
words that Paul shared with Timothy
was his love and care for Timothy.
Um, what I look at this text and
today I'm hoping you'll be able to
see what I see in this is it's so
important that as we study guys' work
cuz here's my hope, here's my hope.
Sundays is not the only day
that you're in God's word.
And if it is, here's my challenge.
Let that change tomorrow.
How do you change?
I'm, I'm just gonna take
a second to jump off here.
How do you change getting in God's word
tomorrow if you don't have a Bible back?
There is Bibles on the,
the next steps table.
You could start there if you
don't wanna paper Bible download.
The Bible app, right?
And start a Bible plan.
It's one of the simplest
things to get in the word.
Allow the word of God
to teach you every day.
My challenge, don't miss.
Okay.
That's a side note.
But I wanna really walk through this in
a way that makes sense and how I even
think through the message and how I begin
to ask questions and pull things out.
And the first thing we see here, really
in the first, uh, couple of verses, we
see this in the second verse, it says
to Timothy, My dearly love son, right?
So the first, most, uh, important
words that Paul shared was
his love and care for Timothy.
To call Timothy his dearly loved son.
Most would believe that Paul
did not have a son himself, and
Timothy did not have a father that.
A model for him, as we see his faith is
brought back to his grandmother and his
mother, so we're making these assessments.
Timothy doesn't really
have a fatherly example.
Paul doesn't have a son, true
son, and so Paul looks at Timothy
as his true son in the faith.
He says, My dearly loved son.
And so that would make sense.
Timothy's spending a ton of time with
Paul on these missionary journeys.
He's learned a lot from Paul.
Paul's invested in him, and so
I would even say this, that that
Timothy would look at Paul as
his dearly loved father, right?
His spiritual father.
And so from Timothy's perspective
to receive a letter while Timothy's
leading a church where he's maybe
getting afraid, he's dealing with
difficult people in the church.
He's seen his dearly loved father
who's probably getting ready to
die and received this letter, had
to be an encouragement to him.
So the words in which Paul would pin
would be important words to him, and
the first thing that Paul says is not
Go do this, go do that and go do that.
The first words that Paul says is, I'm
writing this to my dearly loved son.
I does.
Anybody enjoy at times to to
hear somebody that's close to
you say that they love you?
That means a lot to me.
I mean, there's people in my life that
they just, they genuinely say, and I
would even say this, my, my youngest
son, Sterling, um, a lot of times, um,
I just love hearing him say he loves me.
And so I'll say, Buddy, I love you.
And he says, Love you too, dad.
Just the way he says
it just melts my harm.
So I think about that word love.
Paul could have used any word,
but he says, My dearly loved son.
So this word that he's
writing to him is so, I.
And so we see it.
Also, he continues on in
verse three, right, is how?
How did Paul show his love to Timothy?
He says this, I thank God whom I
serve with the clear conscience as my
ancestors did when I constantly remember
you and my prayers day and night.
So just kind of seeing the beginning and
the end of this verse, we see that Paul
thinks God daily and nightly for Timothy.
He remembers him in his prayers.
I think that's important.
Because I would say this, a sign
that somebody truly cares for you
is somebody who prays for you.
They're going before God
and they're saying on, on
basically this person's behalf.
I care about them so much.
God, I see what they're going through.
I know the life that they live and the the
battles they face, and I am bringing them
before God every single day and night.
That, that to me shows love.
I don't know about you guys.
Anybody had somebody pray for you?
Anybody?
Now I want you to name somebody
that you know has prayed for you.
Somebody just name somebody
that you know prayed for you.
Your mom.
Who else?
Great.
Who else has prayed for you?
Your dad.
Who else?
Me.
Hey, thanks grandma.
What else?
Who else?
Couple more people.
Who's prayed for you?
Yeah, the church.
Absolutely.
Your brothers best.
When's the last time that you thank
that person for praying for you?
Because if your friends, your
family, your church family prays
for you, that's a sign of love.
And, and, and it's because they, they care
so much about you, and they know God wants
to hear the needs that you have in your
life, that they're bringing your care.
Your trials, your issues,
your burden, whatever it is.
Maybe it's just a blessing
over your life before God.
And so we see Paul doing that.
He shows his love and care for
Timothy by praying for him.
And I believe that that is
something that's so important.
And so when you know that someone
has prayed for you, my encouragement
is that today the people that you
just mentioned, when you leave
outta here today, you should.
Thank you for praying for me.
You wanna know why?
Because I truly believe
this is not just for me.
I think this is the same thing for you.
I am who I am today because the result
of someone else's answered prayer because
someone else choose to pray for me.
I am who I am today.
My wife is one of those.
She's prayed for me a lot.
She tells me a lot of times
when I say, Hey, pray for me.
She says, Oh, already done.
I pray for you a lot.
I believe I am standing here today
because of her faithful prayer.
Like that's big.
And I know we're trying to connect
this back to the text, but I want
you to see this Paul's first thing
was one, you're my dearly loved son.
Two, I pray for you.
Those were huge words for Timothy
in a time that would be difficult.
And so if you've ever dealt with
difficult times and you know somebody
prays for you, Man, one, appreciate that.
But two, tell him how thankful you are.
I know this as a church.
I've had many people reach out
to me and say that you're praying
for me, and I know I'm standing up
here today because of you as well.
And so I thank you because of that.
Right?
So Paul was expressing his love
and his care for Timothy, not only
to just say, Hey, I love you, but
he's also expressing it as a model.
Of faith, a model of
who he should be, right?
These last words are so important.
Every word that Paul speaks is an
example to Timothy to follow, and so
he's really showing Timothy, you should
love others, you should pray for others,
and I, I love this thought, love.
Inspires love.
Love inspires love.
So Romans five eight says this, but God
proves his own love for us and that while
we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
I want you to think about this
because of Jesus' love for Paul,
it inspired Paul to love others.
Love inspires others to love.
And so he was challenging.
He was hopefully inspiring
Timothy to love others even in
the difficult circumstances.
He was.
And it reminds me this, right, that
Paul didn't keep his love to himself,
but he gave it to someone else.
Love was not meant to be
kept, but to be given.
And I remember I was thinking
about it this morning as I was, I
was praying through this message
and thinking through this message.
The first time that this made total sense
to me was when I was young in my faith.
It was the first time I ever went on a
mission trip to Africa, and I remember
going on this mission trip with music
minister there at our church, and
uh, we were going out door to door,
which I laugh about this in Africa.
It's like hut to hut.
To, to share the gospel and
just connect with people, see
if we could pray with them.
And we came to this group of kids who
were selling these like little sim cards
that you could get more minutes for.
And we says, Hey, can we share with you?
Well, we could just share
the gospel with them.
Um, and we had a translator and I
remember him saying this statement.
He said, We had been given the
gospel, the good news of Jesus.
And God has reminded us that we are not
to keep this good news to ourselves, but
we have been given it to give to others.
So I think about that and I think
the love that Paul shared to Timothy
and the prayers that he prayed for
Timothy were not meant for Timothy
just to keep and say Thank you, Lord.
But it was meant for Timothy to
learn, grab, hold of, and in turn love
others, and in turn, pray for others.
And I wanna remind us what
does it mean to love others?
It's not only loving those who are nice
to you, sorry, it's not only loving
those who bless you and love you first.
See, here's what love is.
Love is first Corinthians
13, fourth through eight.
Love is patient.
Oh gosh, I need that.
Love is kind.
Love is not envy.
It's not boastful.
It's not arrogant.
It's not rude.
It's not self-seeking.
It's not irritable.
Man, I need to hear this more.
I need that.
Um, it's not, uh, it says it
does not keep a record of wrongs.
Love finds no joint unrighteousness,
but rejoices in truth.
It bears all things, believes all things,
hopes all things, and endures all things.
And I love this last part.
Love never ends.
See, the love that Paul was
expressing was an important love.
And so this powerful charge that Timothy
was gonna receive from, from, from Paul
started with Paul showing love and.
Praying for him, modeling how important
it was to show his love to him.
Here's what I want you to think though
about this, is that, is it easier
to hear something from someone when
they've shown love and care for you?
Or is it easier when somebody just comes
right up to you and then they start
challenging you to go do something like
you just need to be better, you need to
go live your faith out, or you need to do,
Do you receive it better when somebody,
you know somebody cares for you, or do you
receive it better whenever you don't know?
You ready?
Okay, let me just the first one.
Okay.
I mean, I don't know if you've
ever had a boss come in and
you've done all this work for 'em.
You've done all the work for the
company and rather than them coming
in and saying, Man, thank you so
much for what you've been doing.
You've been knocking outta the park.
All they do is give you another task.
Here's another one.
Deadlines next week kind of frustrates
you a little bit because not that
like, you know, you did a good
job, but like it's nice to know.
That, that you did a good job and, and
so when you know, man, thank you so much.
Just keep knocking outta the park.
You're doing an amazing job.
If there's anything I can do
to help, I'm here for you.
Hey, here's another one next week.
And you're like, pumped, right?
So I look at this same thing here.
Paul is not setting Timothy up as Louis
trying to pull something outta Timothy's.
Really just what I would
say is being genuine, right?
And so I would look at this, that we
need to show people that we love them
first, that we pray for them first
before we start challenging them.
In their lives or in their faith.
And we're gonna see this where Timothy
is, is sharing the second thing.
So the second thing,
sorry, that Paul's sharing.
So the second thing that Paul
shares, uh, to Timothy is to remind
him of his faith and gift from God.
These verses are some
of my favorite verses.
So you know, if you wanna know, Hey,
what are some of Pastor Ben's favorite
verses, It's five through seven.
So let's read these together.
He says, I recall your sincere.
That first lived in your grandmother
Lois, and in your mother units.
I don't even know if I'm
saying their names right.
And now I'm convinced as in also you.
He says, Therefore I remind you to
rekindle the gift that God has given
you through the lane outta my hands.
For God has not given you a spirit of
fear, but a power and love and some mind.
So let's walk through these verses, right?
So after we reminds him that he
loves him, he begins to challenge
him, he begins to challenge him,
and he says he reminds him of his.
See, I'll tell you this, like in
the moment I celebrate whenever I've
lived my faith out and I'm like doing
good, but like the next day I forget.
Do you guys tend to forget, like sometimes
your faith and what God's done for you
and, and really how your life's changed?
I know it's easy.
It's easy to forget.
So what is Paul doing?
He's reminding him of his.
Because it's so easy to forget.
And so, but reminding Timothy of the
roots of his faith, Paul was trying
to strengthen and encourage Timothy
and the face of the persecution
that he would, he was having and
would have after Paul's death.
So he knew how important it
was to say, Hey, remember.
Remember what I would say your why.
We talked a lot about this.
Me and Brittany, whenever I go, you
go into church planning, you, If you
don't remember your why, you'll give up.
We would've given up a long time
ago, but you gotta remember your why.
You're not here for, you know, all
these, these, you know things where
people will, will run around and tell
you, you're doing an amazing job.
Are these big churches or whatever
you want to dream of, you're.
Because of the why, because God so
changed your life that you can't
help but go and share how God can
change others no matter who that is.
So Paul was really reminding Timothy
of his why, his faith, where he was
saved from and what he was saved to.
So Paul knew that Timothy's inspiration
to fulfill his call would only come
from remembering his faith in Jesus.
And let me just say this directly
to you, the only thing that will
inspire you to go live your faith.
Will be your faith that you came through
Jesus and what Jesus did in your life.
I can sit up here every day and try
to motivate you all day long, but my
motivation is worthless apart from really
reminding you of your faith in Jesus,
because if Jesus changing your life hasn't
motivated you enough, what I'm giving you
is, I'm telling you, it's, it's useless
because what we're gonna le learn here
is that God's faith in you and the faith
that you have through him is power.
It is powerful, more powerful
than anything that I could give.
And so I want to continue to remind you,
just as Paul did, remember your faith.
Remember what God's done for you.
And maybe you're wondering, maybe
God hasn't changed your life.
Maybe you haven't given
your life to Christ.
Let me challenge you with this.
God can, God can, you can receive him
today, and you can turn from your sins
and you can accept the faith that he has
for you, and you can begin to experience.
That's the cool part.
So as he's reminding Timothy of
his faith, he's challenging him.
If you'll be grounded in what God has
done for you, you, and remember what
God has done for you, you'll be able
to persevere through these difficult
times and live out your faith.
So as he's reminding him, as his faith,
this is where we get to verse six.
He reminds Timothy of his gift,
his gift, and so does any,
Does anybody realize this?
Like outside?
Obviously we've been
received the gift of s.
We're saved.
But did you know that God has given
you a gift to live out your faith?
There's something inside of you
that's unique, that, and how you
live out your faith, that you can
change the lives of others, you
can change the lives of others.
And that's what he's speaking of here.
He says, I remind you
to rekindle the gift.
So what Paul is saying is Timothy, at
some point understood that he had a gift.
He has the gift of of a shepherd,
Obviously he's a pastor, right?
He has the gift of, you know, we
don't fully know all of his gifts.
Maybe a gift of.
And Timothy's probably been timid lately,
which means he's kind of let the fire,
Has anybody been in a campfire lately?
Overnight.
Unless you just stay up all night,
your fire goes from a big flame down
to like small little coals, right?
Sometimes our faith, he's
down to small little coals.
You can't even say see him and he's
saying rekindle and I, Here's the
thing, I love rekindling my faith,
but the thing is I'm impatient.
So a lot of times if I'm out near pine
needles, I throw 'em on and they go.
I'm like, Yeah, my faith's
rekindled, and then it goes away.
So he's actually staying, start
building, start, start adding some twigs
and, and some bigger sticks as well.
Then maybe you start putting those
pine needles underneath and, and then
beginning to build up that flame, and
then it begins to really be on fire again.
So each one of us has been given a
gift just like Timothy and Timothy
has been neglecting his gift.
And this gift is not just for
Timothy, it was meant for the church.
It was meant for the church.
And so the people around Timothy and
in his church that he was leading
was needing him to fan and inflame
the gift that God was giving him.
Think about this.
When we're neglecting our gift, we may
not be neglecting something that benefits
necessarily us because our salvation's
secure, but it's not benefiting
those around you who knows this.
The bigger the flame at a
campfire, the more you can.
The bigger the flame that you have fanned
in your life, where you live, in your
job, in your home, in your day to day
life, allows other people to see Jesus.
But when we allow it to die out
and we aren't living out our faith,
we've really kept it to ourselves.
We, we really are missing the
greatest thing, as Timothy
was missing that in the story.
So Paul encouraged him.
But then he also wanted to
remind him to rekindle that gift.
And I know this, if we look at Timothy's
life, he easily could be discouraged
because his father and, and, and what
he would say is his, his father in faith
was, was going to die soon for his faith.
So anybody here ever gotten discouraged?
You get discouraged at time.
You, you, you think,
Man, I can't do anything.
Right.
I.
I, I'm never gonna share
my faith like I need to.
And man, I, it's a struggle to live
the life that God's called me to.
We, we get discouraged.
Good news.
You're not the only one.
Timothy was that same way.
But even though Timothy was that same
way, he didn't stay there because
of Paul's encouragement, right?
First Peter Forten says this as each one
is received a gift, use it to serve one
another as good stewards of varied grace.
So my challenge to you, We've been
saying this a little bit lately and
we have some shirts that are coming
out, but God's not done with you.
God's not done with you.
If you think, Man, my flame's
gone out, and man, I just can't
do anything right and I'm just
so defeated, I'm so discouraged.
May today, Paul's words be part
of the breath that fans the flame.
Cuz sometimes what we've gotta do,
we gotta blow on the flame, man.
He blow on the flame in your life
and to begin to rekindle and restart.
And be a part of changing the
lives of those around you.
And here's what happens, because I, I
just, I'm gonna sit out there with you.
What if the fan, the flame is rekindled,
what's gonna happen because Paul
was getting killed for his faith?
Am I gonna be persecuted?
Maybe.
And this is what usually happens.
Verse seven tells us this.
He said, For God has not given
us a spirit of fear, but of power
and love and sound judgment.
Paul knew that Timothy, if I fan
up, you know, my flame gets bigger.
I'm probably, I, I'm really
afraid of what's gonna happen.
Who's gonna say something to me?
What if this happens or what if my
life begins to change and I begin to
have to change different priorities in
my life in order to follow after God?
I'm afraid, I don't know what it is.
Maybe you're afraid of things,
but fear was stopping probably
Timothy from using his.
And I love this statement by Matthew West.
It's a song he makes this statement.
He says, We spend our lives at the
intersection of faith and fear.
So, you know, faith and fear are
two different ends of the spectrum.
They cannot be together.
Faith and fear are separate, right?
And he says this, We spend our lives
at the intersection of faith and fear.
Which way we go from here?
We'll define our destination.
You know, every day we're faced with.
Every day we're faced with fear.
You don't even have to look for it.
It's there.
But we have the choice at that point to
choose faith, that God is going to work
in your life despite the circumstances
around you, despite how difficult it is.
Despite if what if somebody says something
or does something I lose a friend or
how the change my, my folks, Whatever
it is that, that, what will God do?
We had to choose.
Choose faith, and so the enemy
likes to use fear against us.
And I remember this statement I saw,
and you guys are gonna laugh about this.
We, when we went to, um, St.
Louis, we stopped at a restaurant and went
in the restroom and I'm gonna the restroom
and not, I'm not even descriptive here.
Um, Channing's like waiting on one of
the stalls and he starts reading this
quote and I'm like, Oh, that sounds good.
And so like, I just stuck in my head
and, and it was from Will Rogers.
He says, Worry is like paying
a debt that may never be due.
Worry is like paying a
debt that may never be due.
Fear.
And succumbing to fear is like pain, a
debt that may never come due and, and it's
crazy at how fearful we get as believers.
My challenge, just like Paul,
is that we don't lean in.
He says he's not given us spirit of fear.
And I love this statement.
God gives us so many things,
but we should listen up when you
hear what God doesn't give you.
God doesn't give you a spirit of
fear, but what does he give you?
And we're gonna walk through this.
He gives us power.
What is power?
Our power comes from the Lord who
has absolute power over everything.
Cool thing.
God was powerful enough to
raise Jesus from the dead.
He was powerful enough to save
you from your sins and give
you an eternity in heaven.
And if those two things aren't powerful
enough, I don't know what's gonna be.
But if he's powerful enough
to do those two things.
You think he's powerful enough
to defeat the fears in which you
have about living your faith out.
I know I needed to hear this.
Maybe you, you do too,
but God is powerful.
So he's given us power and
he's also given us love.
And we talked about love earlier,
but I wanna read this first.
John four 18 says, There is no fear.
In love, but perfect love cast out
fear because fear involves torment.
But he who fears has not
been made perfect in love.
So God, through his spirit, has
given us an unconditional love.
And I want you to hear that God has
given you an unconditional love.
Yeah.
Um, and that unconditional love.
Think about this.
Despite what you do with your life,
God's love never changed about you.
Did you know that God's love has
never changed about any one of.
And I think about that because
again, what does fear do?
What if I don't do enough for the Lord?
Will he still love me?
Did you know that the Lord loves
you as much today as he did
at any point in your lifetime?
God's loves never changed, but
our receiving that love at times
changes because we think we put put
these, these limits on God's love.
His love is unconditional.
It's always there, but
we have to receive it.
And so God has given us love.
He's also given a sound
judgment or self discipline.
Your version may say something different,
but this is a person who has life under
control, and this is what I'm not saying,
like you have it under control, but really
it's under control of the spirit of God.
Sound judgment allows us to take our
thoughts captive to the obedience
of Christ, and so remembering our
faith and the gift that God has
given us should cause us just like
Timothy to begin to fan into flame.
The spirit of God inside
of us to live inspired.
And Paul knew how important
that was for him, right?
So he knew that he needed this.
And so Paul tells this to Timothy, right?
I love you.
I pray for you.
Remember your faith.
Remember the gift that God has given you.
Don't let fear to feed you.
You've got this.
But this last charge is so difficult,
and this is the one that I think
all of us will struggle with.
The last thing that Paul shared
was an invitation to join him
in the suffering for the gospel.
Does anybody just wake up and
say, I wanna suffer today.
Let's suffer.
Let's go suffering.
Woo.
I don't think any of us do, and
I don't think Timothy did either.
And truth be told, I don't
think Paul enjoyed suffering.
But do you know that sometimes our
suffering can bring about something good?
I mean, anybody ever suffered
at your job like it's difficult.
Riley's Amen.
And back there.
Okay, we, at some point you have,
but you know what the good that comes
out of that, you know, at the bare
minimum, you've got money in your
bank account to go pay your bills.
But that's good, even though it sucked.
I, I use that word.
I'm sorry.
Anyways, suffering can be good.
So let's look at this, right, And verse
eight it says, and I'm gonna kind work
verse by verse here, but someone, he says,
So do not be ashamed of the testimony
about our Lord or as me as his prisoner.
Instead, sharing the suffering for
the gospel, relying on the power of.
So we wanted Timothy to
share in the suffering.
But here's the cool part.
Paul didn't sit up, unlike a little
pedestal and said, Hey, I'm not
gonna suffer, but you go suffer.
Paul was in prison about to die,
and he's writing this letter to
say, sharing the sufferings with me.
Paul led by example to
say, Hey, it's worth it.
And so I just think of it.
This one, I think of
verses one through seven.
This is really what Paul is
saying, therefore, Timothy.
Because of my love for you and
the gifts that God has given you.
Join me with power, love, and sound
mind, and don't shrink back, but press
on according to the power of God.
Despite what has happened to you, what
has happened to me, what will happen
to you and what will happen to me.
I'll tell you this.
It is easier to go into battle when I see
somebody leading the charge like that.
Here's the cool part.
As a church, I know it
looks small right now.
We're missing some people here right now.
But you going into battle with
me and Brittany and our family,
man, you know it, it's easier.
It's easier to know that we link arms and
we're going into our community to change
our community, to show them the love of
Jesus, to help them experience what it
means to have a relationship with Jesus.
Like to me, that is great, and I'm
so thankful that Paul gives us this
example, is he's inviting, so I'm
inviting you to join in the suffering at.
That it takes to plan a church and to
reach a city to not give up, to not
back down, to not give in to the fears
that each one of us face every day.
And I'm thankful for Paul's example
in this, and I think Timothy was too.
I think of the, some of the people
that had the greatest influence in
history are those who would lead
the charge or set the example.
And he wasn't challenged and
Timothy to do this on his own guys.
It's from God's power, not.
So as we see verses nine through 11 and
kind of just summarizing nine through
11, Paul was quickly reminding Timothy
of his calling to spur him on and why
he himself suffers for the gospel.
Look at the words he shares here.
He says, Speaking of Jesus,
he says He has saved us and
called us with the holy calling.
Not according to our works, but
according to his own purpose and grace,
which was given to us in Christ Jesus.
Before time began, Paul could suffer.
Because of what Jesus had done for him.
So picture this, because if Jesus
is suffering, Paul could suffer
because of Paul's suffering.
Timothy could suffer because of Timothy's
suffering and the people after them,
we have received the call to suffer.
And I, I'm just telling you, this is hard.
What does that mean?
We all suffer in different
ways to go live our faiths.
And like I said, that could be
time, talents, and treasures.
Many of you that give each shit every
week, that's a form of suffering because
you're choosing to not meet some of
the financial needs that you have or
the things you could do to meet our
ministries needs and put on events
like we did last week, which I think
we spent close to probably $1,500 on.
And you think that's crazy?
No, I think that's investment.
When you say time, it took time last
week and it took time to plan that.
And it takes time to go and serve and it
takes time to do all the things we do.
I mean, we all, I'm just telling
you this, if I asked you,
Hey, do you got any free time?
Most you'd say, Not really,
but I can make time.
We make time for what we wanna make
time with that may be suffering to you.
Maybe it is persecution where you go live
your faith out in your job and you get
push back Where, how do your friends and
your friends think, Man, you're crazy.
You're a radical Christian.
You're going, No, I'm really just a c.
I don't know what it is, but I think that
suffering that Paul is calling us to is
so important because fear gets in the way.
When we hear about that, we think,
Oh man, what am I gonna lose?
But maybe we should start thinking
about what other people could gain
from overcoming our fears, not
giving into that temptation of what
the enemy wants to deceive us with.
So Paul said in the last verse here,
verse 12, and I'm kind of going a little
bit quicker on these last couple verses.
I didn't go as deep, but he says this.
He says, And that is why
I suffered these things.
But I am not ashamed because I know
whom I believed and have persuaded
that he's able to guard what has
been entrusted to me until this day.
Here's what Paul knew, that no
matter what that, as he continues to
invest into Timothy and those around
him and live out his faith, that
God will take that no matter what.
He has invested and given over to God.
There's nothing that he will lose
because Jesus will be able to
keep it until the end of the time.
I love this statement by Martin Luther.
He says this, I have held many
things in my hands and I've lost
them all, but whatever I placed in
God's hands that I still possess.
What are you placing in God's hands?
You know what I wrote down over here?
This church, his people, and this
city, It's God's church, Y'all.
Are God's people.
This city is God's.
And if I continue, if you continue to
think that about your neighbors, your
friends, your coworkers, your city, your
small group, whatever it is, and you
place them in God's hands, here's what I
believe, based upon the word of God, that
it will be there, that God will take it.
He will bless that.
He will continue to keep it.
But anything you keep in your
hands, your control that you
may lose and you most likely.
And again, I, I read these, these
verses speaking to myself as
much as I'm speaking to anybody.
So p Paul's last words of encouragement
is basically saying to Timothy, I've
been inspired by Jesus to live inspired.
I love that.
Now, Timothy, what have you to do now, and
this is where we're gonna see in the next
couple weeks, but I gotta already say this
verse, we're gonna see in Timothy Tutu.
Where he really challenges Timothy this.
He says, Take everything that you've
heard from me and the presence of many
witnesses and commit these to faithful
men who will be able to teach others.
Also, ultimately, Paul's challenge,
his last words was to take everything
that I've taught you and wisely invest
it in other people who will take
it and invest it into other people.
And that's how we got the gospel
and why we can plan a church and
why we have what we have today.
I think that's really.
So as we think through this
guys and as we go into a time of
invitation, how can we reflect?
What can we take with this?
Well, we take a lot of things.
If you're anything like me, you're
probably like, Now, which part
do you want me to take home?
Cuz there's a lot of parts to it.
I wanna kind of challenge you in a
couple places and, and it's this,
maybe today you needed to hear that.
Not that Paul loves Timothy, but
that Jesus loves you, that he calls
you a dearly love son or daughter.
Maybe you needed to hear that
today, and, and if you did, man,
let that minister to you right now.
Let that minister to you and, and thank
God for it, because God does love you
as a dearly loved son or daughter.
Maybe today.
You needed to hear the challenge,
to remember your faith, where it
came from, what God has given you.
How God has called you to use the gift.
And if you're wondering what that gift
is, that you can seek the Lord and say,
Lord, fan, the, the gift of whatever
you've given me into my life so that I
can impact those around me, maybe you
need to ask God to do that in your life.
So remind you of your faith and to fan
inflam the gift that God has given you.
Maybe God's inviting you to join the
suffering and you may not know what that
means, so you can just pray the Lord.
Reveals that to you, how you can
suffer in a godly way, right?
Not in a way to justify your
faith, but in a way that brings
people to faith in Christ.
I know that's one of the most
difficult ones to understand, but
I think it's one that we all should
pray through and ask God what he's
calling us to do in that area, right?
Our response is that we
are who we are, right?
As a church because, and we do what we
do because of what God has done for us.
And guys, here's, here's a challenge.
We don't come to just be better people.
We come to make a difference in the lives
of those around us because as we become
better people, as we become closer to
Christ, we will show Christ to others.
And this statement may, I hope it
sticks with you, but it's the last
statement I wanna share with you.
Charles Spurgeon said this about
people who don't know Jesus around us.
Here's what he said.
And again, this is old
English, so hang with me.
He said, If sinners be damned,
at least let them leap to
hell over our dead bodies.
And if they perish, let 'em perish.
Where their arms wrapped around their
knees, imploring them to stay, and if
hell must be filled, let it be filled
with the teeth of our exertions and let
no one go unwarranted, un prayed for here.
Here's really his heartness.
Is he saying, man, like guys,
if people are going to spend
an eternity as separated from
God, don't let it be because you
didn't try to prevent them from.
that challenges me because at times
I, I feel like that I'm afraid
to stop them from going to hell.
Now that, listen to
what I just said there.
I'm afraid to stop them from going to
hell because I might hurt their feelings.
That sounds bad, doesn't it?
But I think we should be more
concerned because these people are
going into attorney separated from
God, and if God's changed you,
you don't want them to go there.
So when we implore, when we, when we grab
at their feet, we're doing it out of love.
Not outta judgment because at the end,
all of us is gonna be judged and the only
reason why we won't be judged by our sense
is because of what Jesus did on the cross.
So maybe that's you today.
Maybe you hear that statement and you're
the one that hasn't given your life
to Christ and you're heading to hell
if you don't give your life to Christ.
And that's a tough statement to
hear, but maybe you need to hear it
today that, that today the gospel's
been shared, that Jesus came to this
earth to save sinners just like you.
And he didn't do it because you know,
we might need it, but we did need it.
We needed to be forgiven of
our sins because we couldn't
pay for our sins on our own.
And if we could, we really, that's
where eternity with hell and hell
is, and that's where our sins get us.
And so if you haven't given your life
to Christ, you can do that today.
Every one of you.
Me, I can give my life to Christ.
If I haven't given my life to Christ.
Maybe that's you.
So my challenge during, in this
time of invitation is if that, Come
talk to me and I know it's awkward.
We have like six people in here and I'm
gonna be in the back, come find me after
service, we'll make it less awkward.
Come talk to me, ask questions, what
it means to give your life to Christ.
But I challenge you during this time
of invitation to just really seek the
Lord on how he would remind you of his
love, his gift, and faith in your life.
And his challenges suffer alongside
him for the sake of the gospel.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we love you.
Lord.
We thank you for this
time today in service.
We thank you for your love.
We thank you for your call.
God, I pray that if there was anything
spoken today, Lord, that was not
valuable for us, Lord, may you remove
it from our minds and our hearts, Lord.
But I pray that everything
that was spoken is encouraging.
Teach one of us, Lord God, I
don't know where everybody stands.
And their faith to you.
But Lord, you do.
And everybody in this room that is
seeking you right now, Lord does as well.
I just pray for you to move, to challenge
them, to take a next step in their faith.
Lord, is it to give their lives
to you Lord, or to take a next
step, Lord to baptism or to, to a
next step and involved in serving?
Or is it a taking next step and
into to just suffering for you?
Lord, I don't know what it is, but you.
And because you do, Lord, I pray
that you move in their hearts.
Lord, you move in my heart and the
area I need to take a next step in.
Lord, let this message change each one of
us Lord, to be a light to those around us.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heavily name.
Amen.
You go, Before I know that
you've even gone to win my war,
you come back head my enemy.
You come back and you my victory.
Oh,
I know that you've even
gone to win my war.
Your love becomes my defense.
It leads me from the drawing
and all I did was praying.
All I did was was share.
All I did was
all
you have saved me.
So much better away.
So much better.
You know, before I do where my heart can
see to find your truth, your mercy is the
time you restore my faith and hold again.
And all I did was pray,
and all I did was worship.
All I did was
all I did was stay, stay.
Great.
So much better.
I.
When I thought I lost me.
You knew wherever I left me,
you introduced me to your love,
put me back together.
You're the.
Of my heart.
I thought I lost
Jesus.
Put me back.
Forget you're the.
Oh my
great.
So much better.
So much.
There was in that you were by my side.
There was in that you in all my life.
Your love is you in all of my life.
I you there was in a, that you by my side.
There was in a that you in all of my,
your love is need you in all of my life.
I,
I worship you
mercy.
You have carried me.
You continue, guys.
No.
Hello.
God, we, we thank you so much that you
are a defender, that you have saved us.
God, we pray that we will take the
challenges that we heard today, um, about
taking our next steps and take those
seriously, carry those into the week with
our, with us as we go about our days.
Lord, we thank you for this time
together and time to worship Your
name and your son's name, Amen.
Just a couple of
announcements this morning.
Thank you all for worshiping with us.
Um, we are doing a baptism Sunday on
October 16th, so if you are interested in
getting baptized, if that's a next step
that might be good for you to take, as
we're talking about next steps, please
feel free to talk to us at the next steps
table and you can get more information.
We can talk through that.
Um, we also have our inspire
groups, our up and running.
So we've got two groups on
Wednesday nights, one in Middletown
at the Bennetts, Sorry guys.
Uh, and the other one at.
Uh, with the Mangram and Fairfields.
And then Matt and I have started our
Inspire group on Mondays in Westchester.
So if you're interested, we
would love to have you guys.
Um, I forgot if there were
any other announcements, so
I'm gonna let you guys go.
Um, thank you so much for worship with
us and you can go get your kiddos.
Christ being.